I've recently gotten into a woodcarving hobby.  The best thing that I've found to learn is Tiki Faces and Totem Poles.  We're going to focus on just Tiki Faces for now as we can limit it to facial features.  THe problem I'm facing is not having the correct dimenstions  for sketching an idea on graph paper and making it translate well to a grid on a round piece of wood, and getting the mathematical facial propotions correct. Here is a good diagram https://centreforsurgery-com-2.nimbus-cdn.uk/wp-content/uploads/2026/07/golden-ratio-phi-1618-diagram-centre-for-surgery-london.png.webp?format=webp&nv=e6e9aa24-efad-4556-87cf-921fc5938fa2

Additionally.  With carving, you need to get rid of the larger pieces first, which when doing a face, that is most of the time the Side view, I would need to have at least side and front views as an option to rotate.  Another feature would be to have stages of the carving.  Full round log > Initial rough out > Details look. This would have Angular Black areas that are removable within the SVG Think 16-bit render > 32-bit render > 64-bit render in the 3 stages. 

Here is  good summary from gemini that tells exactly what I'm trying to accomplish, however tiki heads are going to be more cartoonish where SVG will work and the deeper details are not needed. 

A multi-view multi-stage facial carving diagram visually maps the sequential removal of wood from different angles. It guides carvers from a basic block to a 3D face by demonstrating top, profile (side), and front projections across three distinct phases of material reduction.To master the depth and proportions of facial carving:Stage 1: Establishing the Basic Form (Block-In)This stage focuses purely on the side profile and major structural guidelines.Side View (Profile): Draw the silhouette of the forehead, nose, and chin projection onto the side of the wood. Cut away the waste wood outside this profile.Front View (Center Line): Establish a vertical centerline. Divide the face into thirds using the "Rule of Three": hairline to brow, brow to nose base, and nose base to chin.Top View (Eye Planes): Make swooping, angled cuts from halfway down the nose toward the ear line. This creates the initial depth for the eye sockets.Stage 2: Roughing Out the FeaturesAt this stage, you begin translating the front and side guidelines into actual dimensional depth.The Nose Bridge: Use a V-tool or U-gouge to cut straight down the center line. This leaves the nose projecting forward while sinking the eye plane.Smile Lines (Naso-labial fold): Make stop cuts angling from the bottom of the nose outward. Remove material below these cuts to separate the cheek and mouth area.Under the Chin: Cut upward underneath the chin from the neck plane to define the jawline.Stage 3: Detailing and ShapingThis final stage refines the transitions between the anatomical planes to prevent the face from looking flat.Eyelids: Carve the upper and lower eyelids. The eyeball sits beneath the upper lid, with the deepest cut made near the tear duct (closest to the nose).Lips: Carve a stop cut between the nose and chin to mark the mouth line. Cut the upper lip to overhang the lower lip.Cheeks and Planes: Soften the blocky, geometric edges of the cheeks, forehead, and jaw into smooth transitions.For tips on how to properly set your eye planes, nose bridge, and mouth before moving to detailed cuts

Here is a good image of what the faces would look like, so there are exaggerated features as well as decrotive options.  https://i.etsystatic.com/60670896/r/il/6b43a8/7069001934/il_1588xN.7069001934_1gos.jpg   I would like a prebaked library of: 
Eyes: open, closed, squinting, round, square, pupil size, andgle
Eyebrows: Angry, Laughing, Sad, No eyebrows at all
Nose: round, blocky, nostril size, wideness, closeness to lips
Mouth: Open Closed, smiling, frowning, 
Teeth: no Teeth, Tooth Size, buck toothed, deep mouth, setback from lip line
Tounge: no toungh, slight tounge, toung sticking out (that can overlap the other features up,down, or sideways) Round, sharp (maybe even snake-like?)
Chin feature is optional, but maybe add that as I might want to build more detailed faces a little later in this project, same goes with beard, ears, mustache, and hair style.
However, in leiu of chin details I would love for you to scrape the internet for tiki details and decrotive patterns that would be easy to incorporate as filler space. 

Feel free to also do some web searches on your own to get a better idea as well as maybe some cool things to incorporate in our applications.

Technically I would like to have this as a web app and I'm most comfortable with HTML javascript css.  We'll eventually be hosting this on my docker container, but hold off on this step for a bit as my docker is not running, you can just deploy locally for now. 